Hello and welcome to this new editorial.
All right so we got the final shape of the output the stochastic output as opposed to deterministic
output that we got in the previous tutorials and now we're ready to get the and coefficients.
So before we get them let's jump back a bit into the theory to remind ourselves what they are.
And so I've prepared some good resource for you which is right here.
This PBF by saga or 3 Harry which explains everything about mixture density networks but what I only
want to show you right now is just a reminder of what the parameters of a mixture density network are.
We can see them a bit below.
Here they are the parameters of a mixture model.
Our first the mixing coefficients.
Second the means and third the variances.
And that's exactly what we're about to get inside a function which we'll call get Andean coefficient.
All right.
So let's do this.
Let's go back to Python.
Here we go.
And let's implement that function.
So first it's important to explain here that we're not about to make a method you know because we're
already inside a method.
We are right now implementing the build model method.
So what we're about to do now is a function inside the build model method.
And so again we start with Def to define this new function which we're going to call get and the N coefficient
or code which we'll take as arguments not self because it is just a simple function.
But of course the output because we computing the MGM coefficient from the output and the way we're
going to do this is we're going to split the output in three parts along the horizontal axis meaning
along the dimension of index 1 and each of these parts will be used to compute each of the three coefficients
and we won't compute.
Now the mean and the variance.
This is done in some other parts of the implementation but we will already include the formula for the
mixing coefficient which is the first parameter here.
So let's do this let's for a split the output in three parts three equal parts.
And for this we're going to use the T F that split function which I've worked here for you in the tensor
flow documentation.
So here we go the T F split function takes a couple of arguments the first one is the value meaning
what you want to split and this is going to be of course are output the sarcastic output resulting from
the MDA and Arnon after the MDA an output layer then the number of CI splits meaning the number of splits
you want to have from your output and this is going to be of course three because we want to split the
output in three parts one for each of the three and the N parameters and then the Axis and the axis
is along which axis you want to split your output.
And so we want to split it along the horizontal axis remember our output right now is a 2D tensor so
we're gonna split it along the horizontal axis meaning we're going to split it along some buckets of
observations right.
Because the rows correspond to the observations or the samples.
All right and then the less arguments we don't really care we're going to keep the default values and
therefore here we go we're ready to use that function.
So since this T F split function returns the part resulting from the split well we're directly going
to introduce here the variables that will represent these splits and since each split corresponds to
each one of the three MGM parameters Well that's exactly what we're about to introduce here.
So the first one is going to be lug mix which is for the mixing coefficients the first parameter then
the second one is going to be the mean and third the third one is going to be the low FTD standard deviation.
So we're taking the look here which is the classic thing to do in mathematics working with the luggage
the parameters will facilitate operations including some exponential which is the case for the mixing
coefficients and the standard deviation which is the root of the variance which we've got here as the
third parameter.
All right so this is what is going to be returned by the T F split functions and now it is the time
to call it.
And so I'm getting a sense of flow first from which I'm calling the split function which takes as we've
just seen three arguments the first one is what you want to split which is the output.
The second one is the number of splits you want to get which is three and the third one is the axis
the index of the axis along which you want to do the split which is 1.
All right.
So this bit is ready.
And now as we've said we just want to include some computations of the lug mix.
And so for this we're going to use another function by tens of flow which is this 1 math reduce luck
some exp which will compute the lug of the sum of the exponential of the elements across the dimensions
of a tensor.
And so this tensor is going to be this log mix part of the output resulting from the split which is
made that s denser than the dimension is going to be again the horizontal axis meaning the axis of index
1.
So again we're just going to take all the rows you know all the observations which are exactly these
elements across this dimension of the next one and we're going to take the exponential each of them
then summing all of these exponential and then taking the final look.
And so the formula of this lug mix is a discrimination of this formula here.
The Log of the sum of the exponential of the elements across this dimension of the next one of this
lug mix part of the output tensor.
So we're going to write that into code right away.
As we said it's a discrimination so I'm going to take lug mix and then documentation goes this way you
can do minus equals or if you clearly want to see what's happening you can do it this way equals lug
mix minus and then exactly this function.
So we're not gonna use the T F math reduce look some X function directly but it s second alias T F to
reduce look some X so I'm going to say this then going back into Python going to paste this and in the
parenthesis here we go.
Let us input the arguments so the first one is as we said the tensor inside which you want to do this
log of the sum of the exponential of all the elements and cross the axis and this tensor is of course
the lug mix part of the output you know resulting from one of the three splits that we did before with
this step split function and so here we go let's input that bar the output log mix and then remember
the second argument was the index of the axis along which we want to do this big formula some of the
exponential of all the elements across this dimension.
So the second argument is the index of this dimension and so as we said is the index 1.
And finally we have a third argument which is keep dims the default value is none but we're actually
going to set that to true and keep dims as you see is the deprecated I asked for keep teams and that's
because we're using the alias here t f that reduce looks some X right this implementation was actually
not done and tend to flow one point twelve but I think one point ten we'll check that in the end but
if you use this by the way the whole implementation will still work very well so you can do it with
twenty four one point twelve there is no problem for that.
All right so going back to Python you would go let's input that final argument keep dims equals true
perfect and now as we said we're not going to compute here the mean and the log FTD inside the two remaining
splits resulting from the output this will be on later but at least we have the part of the output for
each of the two remaining parameters the mean and the largest city.
And so what we're going to do now is simply return directly these parameters with their actual form
and so the first one is look makes then the second one is the mean and the third one is the log FTD.
All right.
And now that this function is ready to return these parameters in their actual form.
Well let's get these parameters by calling this function.
And so we are going to introduce three new variables corresponding to each of these parameters starting
with the log mix which we're going to rename out love makes because indeed this is resulting from a
split of the output outlook mix then same out mean that's for the mean and then out lug as.
And that's where the variance.
And so we're gonna get them by calling the Get em the end carafe function which takes this argument
of course the output.
Right.
This now gives us these coefficients and lastly we gonna put these variables into some object variable
because remember we're building a method of this engine art in class.
And so the way we're gonna do this is first create an object variable for the lug mix.
And so we're gonna call that self that out lug mix equals out lug mix.
Right.
Exactly this one which already exists at this point then self that out this time I mean it's going to
be equal to the out mean Vogel returned by the get and the end of a function.
And finally self that out luggage C.D. which is of course equal to this third variable here resulting
from the split right out luggage city.
Here we go.
We now have some object variables for the MGM parameters.
Perfect.
Now we're done with this MGM and part of the implementation so we're going to move on to the last and
final part which will be the same as what we did for the V E meaning you know implementing the training
operation.
So let's put that new element of the structure right away.
I'm going to go back here and here we go in the next story or we'll start the implementation of the
training operations.
So it's going to be a bit more complex than what we did here because we'll have to make some other functions
inside the method but you know we'll do it step by step.
And so as soon as you're ready let's tackle this.
Until then enjoy a.